Hi, I'm Dr. Wes Williams at Hillside Veterinary Clinic in Dallas, Texas.
We're going to talk a little bit today about ear health and ear cleaning.
So dogs develop dirt and debris and discharge in their ears and it has to be taken out.
And so we use solutions like the ear cleansing solution to help break up debris and dirt,
to help change the pH of the ears, to help make it where it's not a hospitable environment
for the bugs, and also to help with the odor.
We use ear cleaning solutions in addition to treatments as well.
The cleaning solution helps kill bacteria and yeast and can be used afterwards for regular
cleaning.
One thing to remember is that if you're treating and cleaning the ears at the same time, you
need to clean the ears 30 minutes prior to treatment.
So Sawyer has been kind enough today to be our model for our ear cleaner.
A couple of tips on cleaning ears.
First of all, we want to grip the ear at the base of the ear, but not so much that we're
causing pain.
Second of all, take your ear cleaning solution, apply a couple of drops into the ear canal,
massage it very well, making sure to work the solution into the ear canal, and then
take some cotton swabs and wipe away any debris from the outside.
A few more tips for cleaning your dog's ears.
When done with the cleaning, wipe off the tip of the ear cleaning solution to make sure
there's no dirt and debris left on there.
When applying it to the dog's ear, make sure not to jam the actual tip into the ear, and
when cleaning the ears, make sure not to jam any Q-tips or cotton into the actual ear,
only wipe off the debris from the outside.
If there are multiple pets in the house, it would be a good idea to have multiple bottles
so you don't spread microbes back and forth from dog to dog.
If you have any questions about ear cleaning, your local veterinarian is a great source
for information.